Another tree based ensemble method that's
gain wide use in real world application is
gradient boosted decision trees.
Like random forest, gradient boosted trees
used an ensemble of multiple tress to
create more powerful prediction models for
classification and regression.
In this lecture,
we'll provide a brief overview of
gradient boosted decision trees,
along with the discussion of their key
parameters, the control model complexity.
Unlike the random forest
method that builds and
combines a forest of randomly different
trees in parallel, the key idea
of gradient boosted decision trees is
that they build a series of trees.
Where each tree is trained, so
that it attempts to correct the mistakes
of the previous tree in the series.
Typically, gradient boosted tree ensembles
use lots of shallow trees known in
machine learning as weak learners.
Built in a nonrandom way,
to create a model that makes fewer and
fewer mistakes as more trees are added.
Once the model is built,
making predictions with a gradient boosted
tree models is fast and
doesn't use a lot of memory.
Like random forests, the number of
estimators in the gradient boosted tree
ensemble is an important parameter
in controlling model complexity.
A new parameter that does not occur
with random forest is something called
the learning rate.
The learning rate controls how
the gradient boost the tree algorithms,
builds a series of collective trees.
When the learning rate is high,
each successive tree
put strong emphases on correcting
the mistakes of its predecessor.
And thus may result in a more
complex individual tree, and
those overall are more complex model.
With smaller settings of the learning
rate, there's less emphasis on thoroughly
correcting the errors
of the previous step,
which tends to lead to
simpler trees at each step.
Here's an example showing how to use
gradient boosted trees in scikit-learn on
our sample fruit classification test,
plotting the decision regions that result.
The code is more or less the same
as what we used for random forests.
But from the sklearn.ensemble module,
we import
the GradientBoostingClassifier class.
We then create
the GradientBoostingClassifier object, and
fit it to the training
data in the usual way.
By default, the learning rate parameter
is set to 0.1, the n_estimators parameter
giving the number of trees to use is set
to 100, and the max depth is set to 3.
As with random forests,
you can see the decision boundaries have
that box-like shape that's characteristic
of decision trees or ensembles of trees.
Now let's apply gradient boosted decision
trees to the breast cancer dataset.
This code trains two different
gradient boosted classifiers.
The first one uses the default settings.
We can see that the first result has
perfect accuracy on the training set,
which indicates the model
is likely overfitting.
Two ways to learn a less complex
gradient boosted tree model are,
to reduce the learning rate, so that each
tree doesn't try as hard to learn a more
complex model, that fixes
the mistakes of its predecessor.
And to reduce the max_depth parameter for
the individual trees in the ensemble.
The second classifier example makes
these changes in the parameters.
And you can see, that the training
set accuracy does decrease,
while the test set accuracy
increases slightly.
Gradient boosted decision trees are among
the best off-the-shelf supervised learning
methods available.
Achieving excellent accuracy with only
modest memory and runtime requirements to
perform prediction,
once the model has been trained.
Some major commercial applications of
machine learning have been based on
gradient boosted decision trees.
Like other decision tree
based learning methods,
you don't need to apply feature
scaling for the algorithm to do well.
And the futures can be a mix of binary,
categorical and continuous types.
Boosted decision trees do
have several downsides.
So like random forests,
ensembles of trees are very difficult for
people to interpret,
compared to individual decision trees.
However, this often may not matter for
many applications where prediction
accuracy is the most important goal.
Gradient boosted methods can require
careful tuning of the learning rate and
other parameters.
And the training process can
require a lot of computation.
And like the other tree based methods we
saw, using gradient boosted methods for
text classification or other scenarios.
Where the featured space has thousands
of features with sparse values,
is usually not a good choice for
accuracy and computational cost reasons.
The key parameters controlling model
complexity for gradient boosted tree
models are, n_estimators which sets the
number of small decisions trees the week
learns to use in the ensemble,
and the learning rate.
Typically, these two
parameters are tuned together.
Since making the learning rates smaller,
will require more trees to
maintain model complexity.
Unlike random forest, increasing
an n_estimators can lead to overfeeding.
So typically, the n_estimators setting
is chosen to best exploit the speed and
memory capabilities of
the system during the training.
And other parameters like
the learning rate are then adjusted,
given that fixed an n_estimators setting.
The max_depth parameter can also have
an effect of model complexity, but
controlling the depth, and
has a complexity of the individual trees.
The gradient boosting method assumes,
that each trees is a weak learner, and so
the max_depth parameter is usually quite
small, on the order of three to five, for
most applications.